My Journey Into Cybersecurity

The most common question around professionals ask when getting ino the cybersecurity industry is "how do I get started".
Cybersecurity is is a broad industry with multple domains and areas of security. Therefore, identifying where you'd like to enter the industry may be a challenge initially.

Here are a few steps I took when I decided to spread my wings in the realm of cybersecurity:

STEP 1: Identify natural and learned skills
    Most of my success in Cybersecurity will depend on my existing skills and williness to learn. I made a list of the natural and learned skills that I possess to help me better identify which security domain would be best fit my epersonality and career goals.

STEP 2: Research the cybersecurity space
    While cybersecurity has several sectors and sub-sectors, educating myself about each domain was my next step.
    Link to Cybersecurity Domain graphic: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/map-cybersecurity-domains-version-20-henry-jiang-ciso-cissp/.

STEP 3: Build resources & network
    Once I used my skills to identify the security domain of interested, I created a list of resources to help me stay up-to-speed on trends and security updates.
    This list included courses I wanted to take, relevant certifications to obtain, news article and publications to follow, podcast etc.
    In addition to gaining information in security, I began to create my network or professionals in the field to learn from.
    
STEP 4: Keep learning, keep researching & JUST GO FOR IT!
    Cybersecurity is not just a job, it is a lifestyle. Dedicating time throughout the week to research and build knowledhge is critcal.
    Threat actors are constantly changing their methods of attack and a good cyber professional stays up-to-date on trends.
    After creating resources and submerging myself into to all thing cybersecurity, I upodated my resumé and began to reach out to target companies on my list.
    
    Before I considered applying for a cybersecurity role, I research the company, the latest news withing the space of my trget company.
    I viewed the job description to better understand what my potential employer was looking for so that I could proactive research how to fill any gaps.
    I used LinkedIn to follow company news and get real-time updates on the company and industry.
    I made note of any company goals and how my knowledge and skill could be an asset AND THEN applied.
    I prepared to walk humbly into an interview knowing more about the company that exisiting employees!
    
During my journey into cybersec, I discovered that learning is a continuous skill. As technolgy and trends evolve, so does the method in which we protect an organization.
   Therefore, the journey is ongoing. All of the steps I took to get into the industry are the very steps I must take to remain an asset.
